I think I'm having a midlife crisis I
lost my wife my son my family I lost my
job a good career over at Facebook and
you know it's like one moment I was
attending my kids birthday party working
my nine-to-five job and then the next
day everything vanished as if none of it
even happened it was two years of dating
four years of marriage raising a kid
changing all those diapers transitioning
from Google to Facebook and all of that
just vanished and now it feels like I
have been running in the wrong direction
this whole time and all of your
carefully laid out plans for life just
don't seem to make sense anymore there's
a sense of restlessness emptiness making
stupid little YouTube videos for stupid
little people reading stupid little
comments and who knows maybe everybody
they're just pots right maybe nobody's
watching this video except you and all
those other views that we're getting
maybe they're just those outsource pots
that I paid for and I find myself
questioning what am I even doing here we
seem to be struggling all of our lives
trying to reach a state where we can
just sleep in all day and that seems to
be the dream where you don't even have
to get up you don't have to go work you
don't have to do anything and you can
just sit back and relax and that's
pretty much what I have now I can just
sleep in all day and it really doesn't
matter if I wake up or not every day I
have enough funds to sustain myself and
yet there's an emptiness to it it
doesn't feel fulfilling at best I'm a
divorced dad at worst I'm a husband
youtuber
[Music]
it's like a double sometimes we wonder
how I keep from going under at one
moment in that video he says quote it
feels like I have been running in the
wrong direction this whole time the
reason for the crisis whether it be
midlife quarter life or at any other
time crisis gonna arise any stage and
any age of your life the reason why it's
a crisis is that we construe meaning in
our lives our sense of leading a
meaningful life is not relative to the
past it's not relative to our own
desires it's not relative to our own
motivations it's relative to our idea of
the future our notions about the future
that we assert here and now we live with
the future and the future gives us a
sense of meaning and purpose and the
efforts we're making the work we're
doing here and now in a profound way
that's easy to lose sight of especially
if you have the same job for many years
or you work towards the same goals for
many years and then suddenly if you're
separated from that vision of the future
the the end to which those efforts were
heading then you've got a crisis doesn't
matter if you're 20 years old doesn't
matter if you're 50 years old as a
manager 80 years old
alright the meaning of the the efforts
we make here and now is measured against
an imaginary future outcome and that's
what we feel and experience as the
meaning of our lives right or wrong and
you can't be wrong again and again and
again why did I work so hard to learn
Chinese because I had certain definite
goals in mind certain definite outcomes
I was pursuing I was cut off from those
goals it's a crisis I realize now that
my reasons for learning Chinese were
wrong as he says it feels like I have
been running in the wrong door
action this whole time right like as if
you're trying to dig your way try to dig
a tunnel and then you find out this
tunnel doesn't lead where you thought it
was gonna lead it never can lead where
you want to lead doesn't matter how hard
you dig doesn't matter how hard you work
you are just digging your own grave you
thought you were done digging a tunnel
that leads somewhere and you're just
digging a tunnel that that leads down
and you know in my case I feel like I'm
almost an expert on this topic because
I've been through this kind of crisis
again and again and again before I
worked hard to teach myself Chinese I
worked hard to teach myself Cambodian
right wasn't a hobby wasn't for fun that
was that was part of the meaning of my
life right that was part of the pursuit
of a meaningful life for me and was
connected to research at humanitarian
work and the study of history all kinds
of other things and as soon as I'm cut
off from the vision of the future the
viable future that the destination the
tunnel was digging doors as soon as it
becomes clear that all this hard work I
did on learning cambodian is for nothing
that there is the destinations not going
to be there then i then i've got a
crisis right doesn't matter if i'm young
old or what-have-you
now again for me personally tragically
these are not the only examples i could
mention i studied korean a Jib way as
languages first nations languages
indigenous languages in canada with
definite outcomes definite future in
mind and all these for me are really
linked to trying to make the world a
better place they're not just linked to
a career in the sense of earning money
and then when it becomes clear that
future is impossible all the hard work I
did in those languages for nothing and
goes back this goes back the first Asian
language I learned was Korean I was a
very young man when I started studying
Korean with a very definite idea of
humanitarian work and politics and why I
wanted to study Korean and when I
figured out I figured out pretty quickly
in that case there was no future of the
kind I was looking for with Korean again
even that was the kind of tragedy that
this side of my life I mean look a lot
of you watching this video
you're gonna be expecting me to talk
about my divorce and my ex-wife guess
what max wife's a horrible human being
it's no big deal people fall in love
with the wrong person all the time when
I talk about my ex ex-wife in person or
on the internet most of the time what I
want to do is emphasize the positive
elements because the negative is so
obvious and I remember saying to my mom
a couple months ago you know you never
asked me why I fell in love with this
woman you never asked me what was good
about this relationship what was good
about her there were good things but you
know you figure out at a certain point
the person I married is not the person I
thought she was then you want to get
divorced and I'm really glad I dumped
her and eventually legally will get
divorced the legal paperwork has been in
slow motion a hundred percent at her
choosing and her urging her strategy her
strategy has been to refuse to let me
get divorced to refuse to comply with
the legal processes so we're paying a
huge amount of money's being spent on
lawyers and it goes on and on but
regardless the divorce and even the
separation from my own daughter it's not
really a crisis in quite this same way
by contrast a video I did a couple of
months ago called University tuition the
problem isn't the price is the value
that video actually for me really
explains the crisis of my life and it's
not just a midlife crisis it was already
a crisis when I was 20 years old and 25
years old and 30 and 30 but it's been a
crisis again and again and again and
it's a crisis of pursuing something in
education whether the myriad university
degrees of pursued the myriad areas of
academic study have pursued and then
realizing oh as I say you're digging a
tunnel you're not digging a tunnel to
somewhere you're digging a tunnel to
nowhere you're digging your own grave
and the harder you dig the more effort
you make the more harm you're doing to
yourself I would say that right now
about me and Chinese though this
studying Chinese isn't just a waste of
my time
it's destroying and discarding any
possible positive future I could have
that's a really crushing I mean
emotionally and intellectually it's a
really crushing realization to come to
where you realize the things have been
pursuing the things I've been striving
for the things I've put hours and hours
of hard work into it's not just they
don't lead to a positive outcome but
when you look at it in terms of
opportunity costs when you look at your
life when you realize what you could be
doing at that time what you should be
doing with your time now you realize
that you've been harming yourself by
making what you thought have it's
positive efforts because that that
objective you're working to it isn't
there the tunnel the tunnel leads
straight down for me my first experience
this kind was when I was 11 years old
when I had just turned 11 1989 follow
the Berlin Wall up to that point like
age 8 9 10 the future I saw and this
wasn't just from my parents but what I
saw on the news what I saw on newspapers
you know at that end you literally see
the news
you don't really watch the news you look
at newspapers you're clean read
newspaper you know you see headlines you
have a vague sense of what's going on
politically in the world my view of life
on Earth and the future life I'd have as
an adult was world war 3 was a war
between Russia and in the United States
and my parents were both communists they
were communist extremists so I imagined
I would be fighting on the Russian side
whereas most of my classmates in school
would be fighting on the American side
it's unbeliev I mean it shaped my
childhood at least as profoundly as
growing up Christian would shave someone
else's childhood growing up you know a
Catholic or some kind of mainstream form
of Christianity maybe not as extreme and
influence as growing up in a cult but a
different cults for different folks what
can I tell you and 1989 happens and then
all of a sudden you're told that future
isn't coming the nuclear bombs that you
imagined could drop at any time you know
like like the like the start of a rates
you know the the starter pistol going
Marilla did anytime nuclear bombs could
start falling and then World War three
was here and we were off it was a new
era a new era that I saw again on
newspapers and TV TV news but that you
also had to imagine as a child watching
cartoons that depicted we're watching
action movies you know cartoons that
showed the future people fighting
wearing spacesuits and I remember asking
my parents you know like well you can't
breathe the air when it's radioactive so
what are people going to be wearing
facemasks like these spacesuits I see on
cartoons is that how we're gonna be
fighting this well what's what's gonna
happen my idea of what my education was
leading to and what I was preparing for
up till 1989 the fall of the Berlin Wall
War was World War 3 was this Cold War
nightmare that I grew up with the
nightmare that to me was normal
nightmare that defined the future I was
getting ready for and then one day that
was gone there is no such thing as a
midlife crisis and I think it's sort of
tragic the way we trivialize people
sorrow and people struggle with this
term oh you know Tom he's having a
midlife crisis
look is it a crisis or not I think
people have a crisis at any age at age
11 age 38 50 whatever it may be when
they realize as this guy has just said
it feels like I've been running in the
wrong direction the whole time when you
realize that your goals aren't just
unattainable that this isn't the
destination you're working towards and
you suddenly have to re-evaluate all of
the work all the effort you've made in
the past and what it is you're doing
right now and the crisis is you know if
you don't change it's gonna be a
disaster it's gonna be worse and worse
the crisis is you have to act you have
to do something different you have to be
somebody different you have to become a
different person
doing a different thing or else and you
don't know what you're supposed to do
you don't know who you're supposed to be
and why because you had
a clear vision of the future you had
some set of assumptions about the future
that now just now you know to be false
then at that
[Music]